Now that we've learned about create re-act app we need to learn about javascript import statements.
These are used all over react so understanding them is pretty fundamental.
I should also mention that import statements aren't reac specific.
They're part of a new javascript standard that's being implemented in browsers right now.
Our first objective is going to be to import a component from another file.
The second is to export a component from another file.
And these two objectives really go hand-in-hand.
And finally to use export default versus exporting something not by default we'll see what that means
as we go.
So let's go back to our Hello World project in cloud 9 Okay we're back in cloud 9.
And let's take a look at actually as to start looking at some imports and tax.
So the top of the file and at the top of pretty much every re-act component you'll make you want to
say import reacts Khama component from react.
So why is reacts without the curly braces and component has curly braces.
Well re-act is the default export from the file and component is export from that file but not by default.
So we'll see examples of this as we go.
Notice at the bottom of this file that we export app by default.
How is that used.
Let's look an index Jap's.
So in this file We're importing app from dot slash app.
Now notice there's a relative path.
So in order for this to work app yes an index chaffs have to be in the same directory.
If app were in another directory called component's it would be dot slash component's slash at.
But since they're in the same we'll just use dot slash.
Now also it's important to notice that app doesn't have the curly braces around it and that's because
app was exported from app just by default.
And the name here when you export something by default isn't actually important.
So I can rename this to pizza and this would also be pizza.
So the default export name can be anything you want when you import it but that's not true of components
that aren't exported by default.
Let's go back to objects and change the export to be not default anymore and then see how that affects
our imports statement.
So we're back in.
And now I'm going to remove the default from the export.
And now you see again error here.
In order to fix that we need to put the things we're exporting in curly braces.
All right so now app is getting exported.
Now if you still have your server running or if you start your server again let's go check it out.
You should get this air export default import as app was not found.
And that's because we're trying to get inside of index Jap's import app as a default from app.
But it's not a default export anymore.
So in order to fix this problem you have to put in curly braces.
And now if I go check out my server it's fixed.
Let's say though that you're really stuck on this pizza name.
So if I go back to index yes if this was not a default export I could still rename it using as.
So I could say app as pizza.
So this name here still has to match up with the the name that was exported from app from this file.
But now we can rename it to something else when we import it.
And I'd also have to change this the pizza and if I save that again no errors.
Now that we know a bit about import syntax let's try to take that Moxey component the pet component
that we created earlier and add it to this app and then I swear that this will be the last I talked
about my cat.
So let's let's work on that.
So if you recall our Moxey component looks like looks like this.
We've got her name a picture and her hobbies down here and the code looks something like this.
So we had a hobby list component and a pet component and then we were rendering the pet.
So let's get rid of Agis and implement the pet in the hobby list.
I'm going to start with the pet.
So the first thing I'll do is copy this code over
and make a new file called Pet Jap's.
So let's kill the server and then I'll just say touch pet that Jesus touch source pet that Jesus and
as you can see we've got this pet jazz file and then I'll just paste all my code in there.
OK.
And I remember the first thing we want to do is import reacts so all imports reacts and component as
a non-default import from reacts and pay attention here to that re-act is not a relative import.
So we don't use dot slash anything that's in your node modules you don't need to use relative path and
I spell import correctly.
There we go.
And then the last piece here is we take off this react because we're importing.
Come on ants.
Spell that right.
Great.
OK.
So now we've got an import re-acting component and we've got our class.
The last step is to export default.
And you can also decide to do it where you do the expert default right at the top.
I prefer to put the export at the bottom of the file but it's really a matter of preference.
Either way is fine.
So I'll stick with export at the bottom.
And now the next step is to update our index Jap's.
So if I go over it index just I no longer want to import.
I'll change this to Pat and I want to import that from my pet Jasc file.
And if it's a jazz file you can leave off the extension.
So just pet is fine.
And then I'll change my component name to pet as well.
All right.
Now let's take a look at that
isn't there.
So I forgot to take out the hobby less from my component because we haven't implemented that yet.
So let's go back to the pet Jap's and remove the hobby list for now.
So I've saved that
and we get a warning here that the image element must have an Propp.
So I'll go back and fix that.
Also I thought I had that but that's OK with Allt equals Moxey picture.
Well Scott Moxey
all right now everything is running without any warning so let's open this up.
And as you can see we've got moxie and we've got the text most of the text except for the list.
But the problem is we lost our styling.
So how do we bring our styling over let's do that next.
So if you remember our component we had this first component CSX that has all of our styles.
So let's grab the CSSA and bring it over to our app.
I'll just copy it all
and go back here and create that file.
So typically you'll call this file the same name as your components or touch source pet.
That's the SS and I'll put all my CSSA inside of there.
One important point to make here is that all the styles inside of your pet that SS should only apply
to the component and that's true for pretty much all of these except for this app.
Well there's sort of two problems.
We no longer have an element with the ID app and this doesn't apply to our component specifically.
So I'm going to take that out and where this really belongs is inside of this index CSSA file and rather
than app.
If you remember what index looks like it's going to be brute
so I'll rename that to route.
Save it and then save our pet.
And I've also got a typo here.
The next step is to import pet that CSSA into our component so I'll just say import thought slash pet
that see us and notice here that it's not a javascript file anymore so we have to add the CSSA extension.
Now it's restarted the server and check it out.
OK our styles are back.
So that looks great.
The last step would be to add that hobby list component as well.
I'm going to leave that to you as an exercise in the next section.
So good luck.